Indian Institute of Information Technology Allahabad

Strategies Adopted By Startups & Small Businesses 
for Growth

Financial  .  Marketing  .  Social Media

Submitted by:
Student 1 - (IIT2020xyz) 
Student 2 - (IIT2020xyz) 
Student 3 - (IIT2020xyz) 
Student 4 - (IIT2020xyz) 
Student 5 - (IIT2020xyz) 
Student 6 - (IIT2020xyz) 
GROWTH STRATEGIES

Every small business needs a plan of action for the rise of their business. It is important to review your business and then see what can be done for the growth of your business. As the variables which you choose for a certain growth strategy can change it is necessary to move quickly on a growth strategy. Firstly we need to know what a growth strategy is. In simple words, a growth strategy is a plan of how you get from where you are today to where you want to be in the future. A growth strategy is a plan of action which increases the market share of a business. 
Here are the five growth strategies to be considered:


Market penetration


Many small businesses give their first try to this growth strategy. In this plan of action we look at the current product and the present environment of the market and what we can do to increase our market share. In this strategy we go head to head with our competitions in the market. One way to increase your market share is by reducing your retailing price. The second way is to offer promotions or schemes. You can offer deals and sales discounts. This way we can attract current customers and can also encourage new customers to try our product.


Market development

We can also target other markets by looking at the different uses for our product or service. If we sell a health soap and are mainly focused on the healthy lifestyle industry we could also look into the beauty market. We can also think about selling our product overseas.
Alternative channels - Maybe we are selling our product only online but we can open up a pop-up shop to sell our products or think of a subscription or membership program to expose and find new clients. With everything going mobile, we can create a mobile app to sell our products on.


Product development

As the name suggests, in this strategy a new product is developed and is sold into the existing market. This strategy is mainly used in markets which are quick in technological development like in electronics and cell phones. For a small business one way is that you could use product expansion by adding a new product to your product line, or the second way is that you could add a new feature to an existing product or the third way is that a feature of a product which has become out-dated or old-fashioned can be changed.


Diversification

Diversification is used by small businesses to enter a new market with a new product. This strategy is called a high risking, high returning strategy. The main reason for this is that product and marketing strategy should be developed for the new product from scratch. Diversification is done in two ways- either you could develop a new product which doesn’t exist in the current market or you could launch a product which is different from your current business but still services the same market which you are involved in.


Acquisition

For the benefits of the company, numerous big businesses have used this method to buy up the companies which have the technology. A small business may shy away from this but if you have the capital and can purchase a company which can add benefits to our company then we should consider it.
How Small Business Target Market

It is known that the target of the businessman market is the group of people who are targeted with advertisements. These people (consumers) are most likely to use products and services. Various variables and strategies have been used by marketers over the years when determining their target markets. Some of them include personal interests, the times in which consumers shop and demographics. 

On the basis of Gender and Age 

Businesses are believed to have some idea to develop their product which attracts the target age groups and genders. Products are developed to satisfy the needs of a particular age group i.e it targets that age group. For example, suppose there is a women's clothing retailer. So its main motive is to  direct its promotional efforts at women.


On the basis of Segmenting Customers by Income

An important variable that companies use to target customers is income. Usual targets of discount retailers are target middle- and lower-income consumers. Conversely, an  upscale clothing retailer of women’s clothes may target women who have incomes over $70,000 annually.



Targeting Customers With Certain Lifestyle Preferences

Small businesses also target an audience on the Lifestyle preferences like people's tastes, hobbies or interests. Like, the health food stores often target an audience which is more health conscious, Boat and swimwear retailers focus on those who enjoy spending their leisure time in the water.


Targeting By Purchasing Cycles 

On the basis of purchasing cycles of the audience, small businesses plan their strategies. This idea is extremely beneficial for restaurants. The staff plans their menu on the basis of customer preferences, choices and reviews. Thus this helps them to attract the crowd in large numbers and hence in growing their business.


Identifying Target Markets  

Market research is the best for small businesses to identify their target markets through market research. For example, some of the hardware companies across the world conduct phone surveys among customers in its various markets to identify their targets. The way a  company can develop profiles of its typical customers is by asking their consumers to provide information such as age, education, employment status, household size and income. 




OnePlus - How it conquered The Market

OnePlus in India was launched in December 2014, and since then it competed with well established companies and made its own empire. OnePlus market-share in India is 33%, with Samsung leading with 34% of the market share. Below are some marketing strategies adopted by OnePlus which helped them to conquer the market.
Creating Buzz with Exclusivity

When OnePlus was launched in India, OnePlus created a situation where everyone was not able to buy the phone even if they wanted to. Beside that, the industry was also capable of calculating the effect of their product and its acceptance among users. Another interesting strategy provided by OnePlus was banking on the prestige of other brands or products to raise awareness and draw the attention of people to their products.

Leveraging on Word of Mouth

Before OnePlus was launched in the Indian market, it already created several  active communities which started talking about the phone. This gave OnePlus the necessary initial grip in the market.

Less Expenditure on Traditional Marketing

OnePlus India has a very great reach on various social media platforms as it has over 2.2 million followers on Instagram and 1.73 million on Twitter. This led the audience to know more about the product and created interest in the company.
A Quality Product

A quality and affordable product is such that it provides performance at an affordable price and with high price to value ratio. You can just never downplay the importance of the quality of a product when it comes to marketing strategies. If you want to beat the current product which is at its peak in the market using a cheaper product then you can beat them if your product has better quality.

Online Sales without Offline Stores

Initially, OnePlus made its product available only on the online platforms with no offline sales at all.

Maximally Utilizing an Hashtag (#NeverSettle)

OnePlus, in most of its campaigns and promotions, used the power of hashtags and slogans combined with other social media strategies to get involved with its customer base. When OnePlus was launched it was live streamed on Twitter and hence it  was quite a successful campaign. 
#NeverSettle is a hashtag that was created by OnePlus and it has been leveraging this hashtag in all of its marketing strategies.


Financial services social media Strategy

Financial service organizations have enhanced social selling programs and approval of the employees. On merging the data that has been generated by their financial services social media strategies into a single source of customer truth are flourishing.Udhar have Financial organizations engaged with digital customers, differentiating with real time communication through social platforms. There has been a clear shift from reviews with the industry treating social media posts as interactive communication rather than static advertising.

Companies admitted that social media plays a crucial role. Financial sector has access to detailed customer data, so observable fact is an increase in social advertising by the financial sector. This means segmenting the audience into groups of people who look like their customers and site visitors. 

